We're in Madrid at the Prado Museum
and we look at Velazquez's canvas.
This is a picture called Vulcan's Forge. Some art historians
they describe it as a bit burlesque, mocking.
Here we see Apollo, the sun god and poets
with halo overhead
how to have fun with the Vulcan who forges armor
and working hard all day.
Apollo came to him to tell him
that his wife Venus has a romance with Mars
God of War.
Let's see how they both face.
They seemed to forget everything for a while.
Apollo's back is taut, his head erect. He is mainly interested in himself,
because he needs Vulcan to communicate his scandalous news.
The volcano looks angry and dangerous.
In one hand he keeps a red-hot piece of metal and a hammer.
He looks as if he is not afraid to strike anyone or anything that gets in his way.
And look at his body.
He has a hull, belly and muscles on his hands.
But his face is like Caravaggio's image.
He's not an ideal handsome man. (On our terms.)
Well, besides the beautiful body.
Actually, all male characters have beautiful, ideal bodies.
As if Velazquez was inspired by the art of ancient Greece and Rome.
Or Renaissance artists like Michelangelo.
Or canvases from Caravaggio.
But the faces of the characters look different, don't they?
Yes. They are no longer so beautiful, idealized.
Actually, they look pretty realistic,
even if they are not painted with clear prestige.
All this creates some tension in the image
between the realistic, earthy way of painting, the character of the characters
and what they do
and with what gestures they express their emotions.
And also how these characters resemble classic statues in their appearance,
their bodies look like classic antique sculptures.
But at the same time, there is not something else. I doubt French or Italians
they have shown this important mythological story by this one,
almost comical way? What do you think? - Exactly.
Look at the man standing like the other from the right.
It looks so astonished that it makes it ridiculous.
There is such a human sense of joke, skirmish.
It seems too daring to approach this classic fabric
without respect and respect, as is customary.
At the same time, this painting works lightly as a painter's practice.
In the middle we have three male characters
shown from three different angles.
The man on the right is Vulcan, facing us,
the other is turned back
and the last is in profile.
And there is another character who comes to the group of three others.
The three men almost resemble another trio,
and three of the three women - Three Graces.
- Really! The group looks very arranged and arranged.
It is as if this image should be an advertisement for potential patron artists.
Velazquez painted this picture when he was still quite young.
At that time he went to Rome on Rubens' impulse
and maybe he tried to show what he could do. Including painting of naked male bodies.
In any case, he was able to demonstrate that he was an artist capable of fresh approach,
who can push the boundaries of how an old familiar story can be conceived.